So if we had came up
with a prime directive,
I would say that only one image should
load even if many are specified.
So this is the big problem back in the
earlier days of responsive images where we
used to line up a whole bunch of image
tags and we'd set some display properties.
All of those images would typically
load and we'd display one of them.
So we actually made situations worse for
ourselves.
So whatever solution you have, however
many images you're may choose from to
display on the web page,
we only want one of them to load.
So that is the thing to always keep in
mind as you look at responsive design
solutions.
So, here's an example of the bad code
that I was talking about here just
a moment ago.
We used to do this in bootstrap
back in some of the early versions,
we would have a div.
inside of it, we'd have two images,
we give them classes, and
then we'd use display none to turn on and
off those images.
Even if they're set to display none, both
of these images are going to load you've
actually made your web
page load more slowly.
Than you would have if you just stuck
with one image and just reframed it.
So, don't do this,
don't do this bad code, okay.
Other code you can use cautiously so you
have seen me use all the way up to this
point in the course and going forward.
You have seen me do this.
We have an image on the page,
we set the width to 100%.
And you can throw a max width on top
of that too if you don't want it to get
bigger than a certain
point that's optional.
But what this will do is give your image
flexibility within the space, okay?
The problem here is that you have one
image that loads regardless of what device
you're using,
regardless of the speed of the connection.
And that is going to cause
potentially a very large image to
download to a mobile device for example.
And so this works if you're working
with small images that are already
small in file size.
In other words, you don't have
to use responsive image code for
every image that ever was on your webpage.
It takes a lot of time and
effort to put this stuff together.
And quite frankly, sometimes it's just
not needed if they're small images and
they are a reasonable file size.
And you're getting good
performance out of your webpage,
don't take the time to
do responsive image.
This may be the right solution for you.
So let's talk about those two different
possible approaches that you have.
The first one is the picture tag.
And so
this one lets you the webpage author,
decide which image displays
under which condition.
And this is the one that I talked about
on the previous version of this course.
So, let's say that you have this lovely
picture of the hot air balloons again.
So what you might do is art direction.
You have various pieces of this that
you might wanna display under different
conditions.
Just taking this giant image and
scaling down to something small for
a small device results
in this as you see here.
And you lose a lot of
detail out of that image.
So a better approach is to do the art
direction which means let's crop it and
pick out the important
parts of the picture.
Maybe it's this these two
balloons that are here together.
Or maybe you actually want to put the
focus somewhere else that the flattened
balloon that's there on the ground,
you might not have even
noticed that that was there.
So, using this technique of art direction,
you're going to go to Photoshop or
whatever tool you're using for
cropping images.
And you'll create those alternative
versions of the image yourself outside of
your code.
Then you're gonna drop that into your
HTML, and it's gonna look like this,
you have a picture element that
goes all the way around it and
then you're gonna make use
of the source element.
If you're familiar with the audio and
video elements,
the source element is familiar to you.
You can have as many of these
source element as you want,
they stack one on top of the other.
And they contain a source for
the image and they contain a media query.
And the media query says, under
whatever conditions you want that you'd
like this particular image to load,
the media query is optional.
You could use this in other ways
I'll show you in just a moment.
But that is the typical way that
the picture element is used.
And then you can provide
an alternative image in this case,
this is the smaller version of the image.
And that will load either when
the picture element is not supported,
so you're on an old version of IE or
when this is the default image.
So none of the media queries
are satisfied so this other image loads.
In this particular code If your
screen was less than 850 pixels,
you'd get the smaller image.
You can also do this with
different media queries.
So here I've said, load this first one
if the orientation is landscape so
let me say a little bit about media
query with an orientation of landscape.
Landscape and portrait just like you've
used in print for years landscape
is wider than tall portraits the other
way around taller than wide.
When you are talking about this,
you are not talking about your phone,
in portrait or landscape that
is not what we are referring to.
We are actually referring to dimensions
here so if the window the browser window
the window of the device is wider than
it is tall it is considered landscape.
If it is taller than wide,
then that's considered portrait so
it doesn't have anything to do with
the orientation of the device.
So in this case,
if it is wider than it is tall,
we're gonna get the larger
version of the picture.
Or maybe we'll get the skinnier version
art direction picture here that shows
a very different kind
of view of this image.
You can also use this type of element if
you want to make use of WebP images for
example.
Those are supposed to be very good for
Image optimization,
they're a brand new format that
are coming out from Google.
They're supposed to be really good for
compression and
communicating more information and
less disk size.
So you really wanna make use of your
WebP images for performance reasons.
But you wanna provide a PNG in case
the browser doesn't support web WebP
excuse me.
So here we've got two versions.
We've got the, the WebP version we
have a different version that's a PNG,
and then we have a fallback.
That might be something smaller,
it's just a regular old JPEG, okay?
But there's a lot of things that pictures
forget about responsive elements
along the way.
So it forgets to tell the browser things
like how big is the image location that
hole in the page layout.
Remember that the browser is gonna load
from the top of the page going on down.
When it hits that image, if it doesn't
know how big of a space to leave for
it, it's gonna wait until it downloads
the picture before it starts
downloading the rest of the web page.
So if we tell it how big that hole should
be, then the browser knows to save
that much space and it will continue
to download it feel faster.
How big are the images or
the peg that fits into that that hole?
How big are those images
that might be displayed?
So we have the size, the image,
the size of the hole, and
what is the pixel density of the screen.
These are things that
the browser doesn't know,
as it's waiting for
these pictures to download.
So you could compensate for that you
could write this piece of code with all
of these different media queries,
with min-widths and
max-widths device pixel ratios and all the
rest of it, I don't have time for this.
I don't know about you, but
I have better things to do than
to write this kind of HTML.
So that is a possibility
[LAUGH] you could do this,
I think it'd be a little bit crazy.
So this is where srcset and sizes come in.
But, potentially, the downside to this is
that the browser is going to decide
which image is going to display.
So with picture you have total control,
but then you might wind up writing some
crazy HTML in order to get the right
image displaying at the right place.
Here you're gonna write much less HTML,
but you leave it to the browser to decide.
So as Eric Kortis, describes in his
article here, I've cited it here,
I encourage you to go and read this.
He does a great job explaining this stuff.
He says what the author knows
as they write the web page and
what the browser knows as
it's loading the web page.
And if you notice they're sort of
staggered in terms of their yes and no.
So now in terms of viewport dimensions,
and screen density and source files and so
forth, they stagger on down here.
So what srcset and sizes do, they work
together to tell the browser everything
it needs to know to make its best decision
as to which image it should load.
Okay, so it's gonna tell all that.
But remember, once again,
I'm gonna say this like 1000 times,
the browser gets to decide and
it may not decide what you think is best.
So if you're a control freak,
the picture element is totally for you.
But if you're willing to give it up
to write less code, then srcset and
sizes may be a better way to go.
All right, so as I said, one more time,
the browser decides which image is going
to load and
it may not load the image that you expect.
Also different browsers may
make different choices.
That's the crazy part.
So what Firefox decides to do may be
different than what Chrome decides to do.
>> Can I somehow put a picture when
the same images used in like a variable
instead of repeating the entire
path over and over and over again.
>> Well, this is HTML, not CSS.
So I don't think you can do I mean maybe
you could do something with JavaScript but
not in straight HTML.
In fact, for that matter where's
the stuff gonna come from?
Most likely you're not gonna write it
in straight HTML, it's gonna come off
the server or you're probably going to
do something with JavaScript anyway.
But I'm talking straight HTML here today.
All right, so this was what the srcset and
sizes code winds up looking like.
It's like this and so let's walk
through what this code is line by line.
So first of all, the image tag,
you know and love.
So you have your image source and
you have your alt text always.
And that's gonna be the same
regardless of what image loads.
So this is why you're gonna
use the same image and
let the browser choose so
there's no art direction here.
There's no different images that
might require different alt texts,
all the same alt text, okay?
This part in the middle are the file
names and then next to it is something
like 1024w that is the width in
pixels of that particular image.
So here we've got three possible options,
small.jpg is the default with the srcset.
We have a 1024, 6040 and a 320 pixels.
So it's kinda like in the old days
when you used to put in the width and
your image tag you said width of 1024,
that was 1024 pixels.
And then sizes is
the hole in the web page.
So what this bit of code here says is,
if the minimum width is at
least 36m then display the image
at 33.3 viewport widths.
Otherwise, display the width
at 100 viewport widths.
That's what that one a code means, okay?
So that's the way you would
set up a code for srcset and
sizesand you use them together.
You might think this is a great way
to deal with retina images as well or
other pixel dense images.
It as Eric, Kortis points out in his
article here, this one's at a list apart.
It's a nice compact way to supply high
DPI imagery but it only works for
fixed width images.
So if your image is going
to change dimensions or
if it's going to flex using that
width of 100% or something.
This type of code is not going to work for
that, but it is,
another possible syntax, okay?
And you can combine these, which is
probably the next question somebody had.
So you have the picture tag inside of it.
You can have your individual
source elements and
then each of those can have srcset and
sizes associated with them.
So this is an example of how that
code might look if you wanted to
combine these things.
All right, notice here that in
the source media this particular
example that I got was from was was of
using the aspect ratio in the media query.
So in other words, if it's a 16 by nine
screen we're gonna learn one set of images
but if it's a one by one or square.
Type of screen we're gonna load
different types of images.
Okay.
So what should you use?
Here's the big summary.
So if you're on a picture tag you're
going to use the image is optimised for
content reasons,
rather than technical reasons.
So the content of that image is far
more important than the technical
considerations of speed of download.
And then, of course, for srcset and
sizes, it's the other way around there.
We're gonna have the technical reasons for
downloading a particular image trump,
whatever is in the image.
For the picture,
the author is gonna choose the best image.
The browser is gonna choose
it under src and srcset.
And the images may be varied
in different composition and
dimension on the picture tag.
But they should probably
all be the same on src and
srcset, that's the wrong srcset and sizes.
And that's because the browser is gonna
choose which image is going
to be used on the page,
you probably don't wanna have a variation
of the composition of the picture.
So finally, let me also just mention here
real quick as we go forward background
images can also be responsive.
What you want to do in order to make your
background images be sure that only one of
them loads is that you want to contain
your background images in a media query.
Another words you're never gonna
have as we have done many times now,
to this point.
We have some styles that
are outside of the media query,
that tend to be mobile in nature.
You're never ever gonna put background
images out in that particular part of
your style sheet.
The background images are always gonna
be inside of some kind of media query so
that only one image will
load under those conditions.
Remember, we're the only crazy people that
do this stuff with our browser windows and
cause lots of images to download.
Most people just open their browser
window and read web pages and so
only one background image should
download under those conditions.
Okay, that's all those points.
And so here's an example of that.
We have a media query
with a max width of 700.
It's gonna download this, but
if it has a minimum width of 701
will download a different image.
That's what that code would
wind up looking like.